All right, so one of the one of the
questions we got a little bit earlier was,
how does this whole TypeScripting work
with some of the functional programming
paradigms?
So JavaScript, again, this is where
the generics become super useful.
For instance, a lot of the things that
we know and love like map or filter,
any of those functions,
think about the fact that lodash should
still work with TypeScript, right?
And we don't want to have a map for
every single different type of array
that could possibly ever exist for
every different kind of object shape or
anything along those lines,
and we don't want to use any.
And that's like a place where
the generics help, right?
So we used it for
creating a linked list node.
I think about some of the common
functional programming paradigms like,
the easiest one is identity.
Identity is a function that
just returns the same Type.
Now, shouldn't have to have
an identity function for
strings different than identity function
for numbers or anything like that.
So we just say, hey,
we're gonna have a type for
this identity function that
is somewhat variable, right?
And we say like, I don't know,
value is of whatever type that is, and
we just want to return it back to us.
It's all an identity function does is
this, it takes whatever the value is and
immediately returns it.
And again, whatever, so
now we can do, two, identity is two,
and because you pass in the number 2,
this identity is now,
this one is set to literally
the number two, or a string or
it'll basically on the fly,
figure out the type for us.
And again, all that figuring out stuff
that was happening magically happens
through these generics as well.
So what you're going to try to do and
you can do this in the kind of
TypeScript playground as well.
We have this idea of another
function called tap and
tap is super useful occasionally.
What tap does is there are different
things in JavaScript that don't return
the value back to us, like pop,
gives us the first number.
If you just wanted to pop a number off but
then get the value back immediately,
you might find yourself like okay,
store in a variable, pop something off,
return the original variable.
So tap can look something like this.
This one is obviously not typed where
we want to pop something off on the end
of the array, but we'll use tap, pass in
an array, say what we want to do with it,
will immediately get back the tooth,
the 1, 2, 3, all right?
I use it a lot for, especially in JSX.
Any of the expressions that you put in
a react component have to return a value.
So a lot of times like,
I don't know why something isn't working.
I wish I could console log this, except
you can't console log inside of JSX and
get the value back.
So you end up doing stuff with like,
and stuff like that.
So you could have one where you'd
have a value, we say tap value.
This would, in your JSX expression,
take the value,
console log it for you and
then return it again.
So you don't necessarily have
to change any of your code.
So a lot of times I'll abstract
this into a log function.
It's just a utility
method to help me debug.
Your job is to take
a basic version of Tap,
and again, and
implement it with the types, right?
So we know that, okay, what is the type
of thing we're passing in here?
And then we know that this function,
with kinda think about if we,
we know that the first argument
is an array of a certain type.
So it might be, a given type,
and then we know that over here,
we're just gonna pass in a single
version of that type into the array,
have it come out the other end.
So what we wanna do is figure out a way
to implement this function, right?
Just give it a shot where you can kind
of see what we do here, identity,
we're gonna take this, and
we're actually the full way.
If we looked at it here as well,
we look at an identity function, right?
We know that we're gonna have
a type variable called T,
the value is gonna be T,
we're going to return it.
Tap is going to be a little
bit more complicated.
But your job is to create a version where,
takes an array of a given type,
takes a function which takes that type and
returns that type.
And then it returns the array of
the given type again, all right.
So it's a little bit more
advanced than identity,
but why don't you give it a shot and
then we'll do it together in a second.